[DOCU-2415] Configure Routes and Services (#4217)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/get-started/configure-services-and-routes.md

To configure do this, you will be using the Admin API. By default, the Admin API is configured on port `8001`. Interacting with the API can be done using `cURL` or an API client like [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/).

### Add a Service

In this tutorial you can create a service using the [services](/gateway/latest/admin-api/#add-service) endpoint. To add a service, send a **POST** request to {{site.base_gateway}}: 

```sh
curl -i -X POST http://localhost:8001/services \
  --data name=example_service \
  --data url='http://mockbin.org'
```
If your request was successful you will receive a `201` response from {{site.base_gateway}} confirming that your service was created. 

This request instructed {{site.base_gateway}} to register a service with the name `example_service` and mapped the new service to the [Mockbin](http://mockbin.org) URL. 

The request body contained two strings: 

* `name`: The name of the service.
* `url`: an argument to populate the `host`, `port`, and `path` attributes at once.

You can verify the service's endpoint:

```sh
curl -i http://localhost:8001/services/example_service
```

> The response body will contain information about your service: 

Author: I'll add a link so we don't make an assumption.

```sh
{
	"snis": null,
	"updated_at": 1660067503,
	"preserve_host": false,
	"id": "example_service_id",
	"protocols": [
		"http",
		"https"
	],
	"created_at": 1660067503,
	"service": {
		"id": "example_service"
	},
	"hosts": null,
	"headers": null,
	"name": "mocking",
	"tags": null,
	"paths": [
		"/mock"
	]
}
```

### Update a route

Routes can be tagged. Tags are an optional set of strings associated with the route that can be used for grouping and filtering. You can assign tags by sending a **PATCH** request to the [services endpoint](/gateway/latest/admin-api/#update-route) and specifying a route. 

```
curl --request PATCH \
  --url localhost:8001/services/example_service/routes/mocking \
  --data tags="tutorial"
```

In this example, use the `id` field from the service output, and the name of the route to build the request. If the tag was applied successfully the response body will contain the tag. 

```sh
"tags": [
		"\"tutorial\""
	],
```

You can also use the [routes endpoint](/gateway/latest/admin-api/route) to query for all of the configured routes:

```sh
curl -i -X GET http://localhost:8001/routes
```

> This request will return a `200` and a JSON response body object array with all of the routes configured on this {{site.base_gateway}} instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This request returns an HTTP `200` status code and a JSON response body object array with all of the routes configured on this {{site.base_gateway}} instance. 
```
Edited for Google style guide: https://developers.google.com/style/code-in-text?hl=en#http-status-codes

## Proxy a request 

> Kong is an API Gateway, it takes API calls from clients and routes them to the appropriate upstream application based on a series of configurations. Setting up services and routes models, on a small scale, how {{site.base_gateway}} works. Using the service and route that was configured you can now access `https://mockbin.org/` using `http://localhost:8000/mock`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong is an API Gateway, it takes API calls from clients and routes forwards them to the appropriate upstream application based on a series of configurations. Using the service and route that was previously configured, you can now access `https://mockbin.org/` using `http://localhost:8000/mock`.
```
I removed some text because it was repeating info that was previously mentioned. I think you could cut all but the last sentence if you wanted to (since the first sentence was already talked about in the overview of this doc).

```sh
curl -i -X GET http://localhost:8000/mock
```

> Using `cURL` or accessing the URL from your web browser is possible because Kong has forwarded your request through the configured service and forwarded you the response at the URL of the route. This request was sent to port `8000` instead of port `8001`. Kong's Admin API is configured to run on `8001` by default, {{site.base_gateway}} uses port `8000` to communicate with clients. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `cURL` or access the URL from your web browser because {{site.base_gateway}} forwarded your request through the configured service and forwarded the response at the URL of the route. This request was sent to port `8000` instead of port `8001`. {{site.base_gateway}}'s Admin API is configured to run on `8001` by default, so {{site.base_gateway}} uses port `8000` to communicate with clients. 
```

> ### Configure rate limiting 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Next steps 
```
I think this was used in Konnect and I kind of liked it (made it more noticeable that this was directing you to the next step vs. telling you how to configure rate limiting right now).

---
title: Configure Services and Routes
content-type: tutorial
---

> The Kong API Gateway provides a mechanism govern to all of your APIs from a central point of management. Additionally, the Kong API Gateway enables APIs to stay lean, by abstracting other requirements like observability, and security away from the API code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kong API Gateway provides a mechanism to govern all of your APIs from a central point of management. Additionally, the Kong API Gateway enables APIs to stay lean, by abstracting other requirements like observability, and security away from the API code.
```

Get started with {{site.base_gateway}}:

* [How to install kong](/gateway/latest/get-started/get-kong-with-docker)
* [Configure rate limiting](/gateway/latest/get-started/protect-services)
* [Configure key authentication](/gateway/latest/get-started/secure-services)
* [Configure load-balancing](/gateway/latest/get-started/load-balancing)
* [Workspaces and teams](/gateway/latest/get-started/manage-teams)

## Prerequisites

{{site.base_gateway}} must be installed on your system locally. 

If you do not have {{site.base_gateway}} installed, you can quickly install it using the [How to Install Kong](/gateway/latest/get-started/get-kong-with-docker) instructions and return to this tutorial. 

## What is a service

> In {{site.base_gateway}} a service serves as an abstraction of an existing upstream application. Services can store collections of objects like plugin configurations, and policies, and they can be associated with routes.Every service must have a *name* and a *URL*. The name is used to refer to the server, and the URL points to an upstream application that you want to serve using {{site.base_gateway}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {{site.base_gateway}} a service serves as an abstraction of an existing upstream application. Services can store collections of objects like plugin configurations, and policies, and they can be associated with routes. Every service must have a *name* and a *URL*. The name is used to refer to the server, and the URL points to an upstream application that you want to serve using {{site.base_gateway}}.
```

![Services and routes](/assets/images/docs/getting-started-guide/route-and-service.png)

A service can be configured to interact with multiple upstream applications, including multiple of the same upstream application. 

## What is a route

A route is a path to a resource within an upstream application. Routes are added to services to allow access to the underlying application. In {{site.base_gateway}}, routes typically map to endpoints that are exposed through the {{site.base_gateway}} application. Routes can also define rules that match requests to associated services. Because of this, one route can reference multiple endpoints.
A basic route should have a name, path or paths, and reference an existing service. 

You can also configure routes with:
* Protocols: The protocol used to communicate with the upstream application. 
* Hosts: Lists of domains that match a route
* Methods: HTTP methods that match a route
* Headers: Lists of values that are expected in the header of a request
* Redirect status codes: HTTPS status codes
* Tags: Optional set of strings to group routes with 

## Configure services and routes

In this tutorial, you will complete the following steps:

> * Create a service pointing to the [Mockbin](https://mockbin.org/) API. The Mockbin API generates custom endpoints to test, mock, and track HTTP requests & responses between libraries, sockets and APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a service pointing to the [Mockbin](https://mockbin.org/) API. The Mockbin API generates custom endpoints to test, mock, and track HTTP requests and responses between libraries, sockets, and APIs.
```
